                                        with --input-format=stream-json and
                                        --output-format=stream-json)
  --restricted                          Restricted mode: removes the built-in
                                        tools that run commands or code (Bash,
                                        PowerShell, REPL and the other
                                        code-running tools) and WebFetch unless
                                        --tools names them, and ignores user,
                                        project and local settings files
                                        (managed settings and --settings still
                                        apply; add --strict-mcp-config to skip
                                        MCP servers too). Also confines the file
                                        tools to the working directories
                                        (--add-dir included), refuses
                                        bypassPermissions, and lets only a
                                        person or the configured permission
                                        handler approve writes to settings, git
                                        and tool-configuration files.
  -r, --resume [value]                  Resume a conversation by session ID, or
                                        open interactive picker with optional
                                        search term
  --safe-mode                           Start with all customizations
                                        (CLAUDE.md, skills, plugins, hooks, MCP
                                        servers, custom commands and agents,
                                        output styles, workflows, custom themes,
                                        keybindings, and more) disabled — useful
                                        for troubleshooting a broken
                                        configuration. Admin-managed (policy)
                                        settings still apply. Auth, model
                                        selection, built-in tools, and
                                        permissions work normally. Sets
                                        CLAUDE_CODE_SAFE_MODE=1.
  --session-id <uuid>                   Use a specific session ID for the
                                        conversation (must be a valid UUID)
  --setting-sources <sources>           Comma-separated list of setting sources
                                        to load (user, project, local).
  --settings <file-or-json>             Path to a settings JSON file or a JSON
                                        string to load additional settings from
  --strict-mcp-config                   Only use MCP servers from --mcp-config,
                                        ignoring all other MCP configurations
  --system-prompt <prompt>              System prompt to use for the session
  --system-prompt-snapshot <on|off>     Record the system prompt once per
                                        conversation and reuse it verbatim on
                                        every request and resume. on (the
                                        default): the prompt is rendered on the
                                        conversation's first request — a
                                        --system-prompt or
                                        --append-system-prompt included — sent,
                                        and recorded; every later request and
                                        resume sends the record as-is, even when
                                        a later launch passes different text,
                                        until the conversation is compacted.
                                        off: never record; the prompt is
                                        rendered fresh every request (for
                                        iterating on prompt text). No effect
                                        where system-prompt recording is not yet
                                        enabled. (choices: "on", "off")
  --teleport [session]                  Resume a teleport session, optionally
                                        specify session ID
  --tmux                                Create a tmux session for the worktree
                                        (requires --worktree). Uses iTerm2
                                        native panes when available; use
                                        --tmux=classic for traditional tmux.
  --tools <tools...>                    Specify the list of available tools from
                                        the built-in set. Use "" to disable all
                                        tools, "default" to use all tools, or
                                        specify tool names (e.g.
                                        "Bash,Edit,Read").
  --verbose                             Override verbose mode setting from